Critique Games (In Progress)Fangzhi ZhaoFeb 8 2017I. OverviewCritique Games is a work in progress, which explores alternative means to approach and investigate art critique through the lens of games. This project consists of a series of thought experiments/games. While these imaginary experiments/games could be implemented and played, the project itself doesn’t require the execution of them.The Magic Circle theory The foundation of this project is the Magic Circle Theory. First coined by Dutch historian Johan Huizinga (1872–1945) in Homo Ludens: A Study of the Play-Element in Culture, the theory uses a delineated “magic circle” to distinguish the binary in-game world versus the real world, which binds a space and sets it apart from normal life. Inside the magic circle, different rules apply, and it is a space where game players can experience things not normally sanctioned or allowed in regular space or life. Although problematic itself, the theory provides a useful framework to examine art critique as a probable form of games and to further question the goals, processes, constituents, players, beginnings/ends etc. of art critique.II. Critique Games1) Hang In There For An Hour: The artist under critique mustn’t bring anything work, has to be totally unprepared and hang in there for a full hour long critique session.2) Hang In There For An Hour (Variation): No artist under critique. The critique panel have to stay there for a full hour long critique session.3) Hang In There For An Hour (Variation): No artist under critique. No critique panel. Hang in there for a full hour long critique session.4) Q & A: The artist under critique can only ask questions. No any kinds of statements. The critique panel can only answer the questions.5) Q & A (Variation): The critique panel can only ask questions. No any kinds of statements. The artist can only answer the questions.6) Inversion: The artist brings work then switch roles with a member of the critique panel. That member will be the new artist under critique and present the work. The artist will be a new critique panel member.7) No Talking: The artist and the critique panel can only communicate in written form, no talking.8) Time Capsule: The artist presents/introduces their work to the critique panel. The critique panel critique the work 1 month later.9) Time Capsule (Advanced): The artist presents/introduces their work to the critique panel. The critique panel critique the work 1 year later.10) Time Capsule (Ultimate): The artist presents/introduces their work to the critique panel. The critique panel critique the work 10 years later.11) Pre Game: The artist and the critique panel get 5 shots of vodka then start the critique.12) Noise Canceling: The artist wears sound proof ear pods during the whole critique.13) One liner: The critique panel can only respond one line to the work. No limits for the artist.14) One liner (Variation): The artist can only say one line about the work. No limits for the critique panel.


III. References

	Conway, Steven. A Circular Wall? Reformulating the Fourth Wall for Video Games. http://www.gamasutra.com/view/feature/132475/a_circular_wall_reformulating_the_.php?print=1. Accessed 11 Feb. 2017.
	
	Elkins, James. Art Critiques: A Guide. Washington, DC, New Academia Publishing, 3 Jan. 2012.

	Elkins, James, and Matthew Engelke. What Happened to Art Criticism? 2nd ed., Chicago, IL, University of Chicago Press, 5 Mar. 2004.

	“Magic Circle (virtual Worlds).” Wikipedia, Wikimedia Foundation, 5 Feb. 2017, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Magic_Circle_(virtual_worlds). Accessed 11 Feb. 2017.