Critique Games (In Progress)Fangzhi ZhaoFeb 8 2017I. OverviewCritique Games is a work in progress, which explores alternative means to approach and investigate art critique through the lens of games. This project consists of a series of thought experiments/games. While these imaginary experiments/games could be implemented and played, the project itself doesn’t require the execution of them.The Magic Circle theory The foundation of this project is the Magic Circle Theory. First coined by Dutch historian Johan Huizinga (1872–1945) in Homo Ludens: A Study of the Play-Element in Culture, the theory uses a delineated “magic circle” to distinguish the binary in-game world versus the real world, which binds a space and sets it apart from normal life. Inside the magic circle, different rules apply, and it is a space where game players can experience things not normally sanctioned or allowed in regular space or life. Although problematic itself, the theory provides a useful framework to examine art critique as a probable form of games and to further question the goals, processes, constituents, players, beginnings/ends etc. of art critique.
II. Critique GamesGame 1 - Adaptive Rules (SAIC Special Version) PreparationVenue and equipment	1. A SAIC critique space or classroom.	2. Presentation equipment (projectors, whiteboard, white walls, etc.)	3. Office supplies (paper, pens, markers, etc.)Players	1. 6 SAIC students or faculty members.
Artwork	1. 1-5 individual pieces from each player of various media, styles and themes.Sequence of playInitial round	1. All players together choose one player as the moderator.	2. The moderator randomly designates one player as the artist under critique.
	3. The moderator starts a 50 min timer as the lasting time of this around.	4. The artist introduces their work. The moderator and other players critique.	7. 	8. First round ends. All players take a 10 minute break.Following rounds	The artist from the previous round becomes the moderator of this round.	The new moderator then designates one player as the artist.	The new artist gets 10 minutes to prepare presenting his/her work.	Meanwhile, other players and the new the moderator become the critique panel and discuss how the panel will critique. They write down what they think should be instructions/rules/criteria. The new panel can only add one or delete one specific instruction/rule/criterion from the previous round.	The artist starts presenting, time to be determined according to new possible instructions/rules/criteria.	The rest to be determined according to new possible instructions/rules/criteria...Rules of playExcept for the first round, all rules can be changed by the panel.End of playThe game ends when:	Players are no longer willing to play.	Not enough players (exact number depending on instructions/rules/criteria set by the panel.)	Instructions/rules/criteria no longer function properly.After game and iterationThe whole process will be documented via video and audio. Changes of instructions/rules/criteria of each round will be logged. From second game on, each game will start with instructions/rules/criteria from the last one.No. 22.2 “Cheating,” Mia ConsalvoAs an opponent of the magic circle theory, author Mia Consalvo, in her 2009 writing There is No Magic Circle, points out one of the flaws of the theory. She examines and reveals the cheating behaviors in gaming, which intrinsically contradicts one of the fundamental rules of the magic theory: to enter the circle and play the game, you agree to follow the rules of it rather than to break them. She also points out the important role of game player in a game, “Players also have real lives, with real commitments, expectations, hopes, and desires. That is also brought into the game world, here Azeroth. We can neither ignore such realities nor retreat to structuralist definitions of what makes or defines a game. Games are created through the act of gameplay, which is contingent on acts by players. Those acts are always, already, contextual and dynamic.”